---
title: 'The importance of LGBT+ visibility in science'
date: 2019-04-25
tags:
  - LGBTQ+
  - LGBTQSTEM
---

*The following is a reposted blog that I wrote for the Institute of Integrative Biology’s website on the 25th of April 2019*

I had never set out to advocate for LGBT+ scientists. Quite the opposite, in fact. I started university as a closeted 17 year old, barely coming to terms with my own sexuality and struggling to see how I could have any kind of ‘normal’ life. I forced myself to hang around with the ‘lads-lads’ and go on dates with girls, to fit in at university.

Would I say the environment I was studying was particularly homophobic? Not really. Sure, pejorative terms were thrown around more casually back then (I won’t repeat them but I don’t doubt you can imagine), but in reality, my fear and lack of self-acceptance was compounded by the fact that I was experiencing this alone. I never had role models, I had no ‘out’ gay peers.

Skipping forward 15 or so years, I have gone through reluctant acceptance of myself to more enthusiastically embracing who I am, unreservedly. This hasn’t been a plain sailing journey for me, but many have a much more profound and difficult time with it. I must acknowledge that I am still privileged in many ways – I am white, cisgender and male. Those in my community that don’t have these societal luxuries still experience a significantly more challenging time embracing themselves inwardly and outwardly.

Accepting myself was one thing, but I still never saw myself as an advocate. That part happened by accident. A conversation in a pub about wanting to attend a LGBT+ event led me to ask for financial support from the Institute, to the Institute being so enthusiastic and receptive. This set in motion what has led to IIB staff and students adorning their rainbow lanyards, hosting our first LGBT+ biologists’ social and leading the way and supporting other Schools and Institutes as they begin supporting their LGBT+ staff and students.

If I had the ability to tell my 17 year old self that it would be okay to be out, comfortable and successful as a scientist, I doubt he’d believe me. But I am proud of what we have achieved so far, and what we are continuing to do. No LGBT+ student should feel alone, and all should see that they can be successful in a rich, diverse, scientific community.

You can read more about [me](https://www.500queerscientists.com/fullscreen-page/comp-jgwk54xq/46a4196a-89d9-4360-a52a-72e0b1ef33d0/440/%3Fi%3D440%26p%3Dt0wwl%26s%3Dstyle-jidtaiw8), and many other out queer scientists at [https://www.500queerscientists.com](https://www.500queerscientists.com/)
